添加多人对战文档 (#641)
taptap/tds-docs: i18n/en/docusaurus-plugin-content-docs/current/sdk/multiplayer/guide/cs.mdx

The default room creator of the multiplayer service is the MasterClient, who can close the room, set the room to be invisible, kick people, and so on, and his device is also responsible for "logical operations", for example, it can be responsible for the following scenarios in the game:

- Dealing cards for users in card games;
- Controlling the timing and logic of brushing monsters;
- Judging the winner at the end of the game;
- ...and so on.

### MasterClient is located on the player's client side

You can write the MasterClient logic in the client, and the player terminal as the room creator will take care of the game operations. In this case, multiplayer matches provide the following convenient features for MasterClient:

#### MasterClient Drop Transfer

When a MasterClient is dropped, the Matchmaking service assigns a new PlayerClient as the MasterClient, even if the original MasterClient does not become the new MasterClient when it comes back online. when the MasterClient is changed, the SDK dispatches ` OnMasterSwitched` event to notify the client when the MasterClient changes.

```cs
// Register the host switch event
client.OnMasterSwitched += newMaster => {

>     // TODO can be a host switching presentation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    // TODO can display that the host is changed
```

>     // You can determine whether to perform logical processing based on determining whether the current client is a Master.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    // You can determine whether to perform logical processing according to whether the current client is the Master.
```

    if (client.Player.IsMaster) {

    }
}
```

#### Related Events

| Event | Parameter | Description |
| ---------------- | --------- | ----------- |

> | OnMasterSwitched | newMaster | MasterReplacement |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| OnMasterSwitched | newMaster | Master changed |
```

#### Specify other members as MasterClient

> During the game, if the MasterClient does not want to take the computing function anymore, it can call the following methods to actively transfer its role to other player clients:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
During the game, if the MasterClient does not want to take the computing function anymore, it can call the following method to actively transfer its role to other player clients:
```

```cs
try {

>     // Assign MasterClient by Player Id

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    // Specify MasterClient by Player Id
```

    await client.SetMaster(newMasterId);
} catch (PlayException e) {

>     // Setting up Master failed

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    // Failed to set Master
```

    Debug.LogErrorFormat("{0}, {1}", e.Code, e.Detail);
}
```

> After transferring the MasterClient identity, all players in the room receive the `OnMasterSwitched` event.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After transferring the MasterClient identity, all players in the room will receive the `OnMasterSwitched` event.
```

### MasterClient on the server

In order to ensure game security and prevent users from cheating, we recommend that you host your MasterClient in the Client Engine provided by TDS and configure the following permissions:

#### MasterClient will not be transferred when it drops

> After placing the MasterClient on the server, the MasterClient should not transfer roles even if it unexpectedly drops out of the game, in which case you need to specify the `FixedMaster` flag when creating a room:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After placing the MasterClient on the server, the MasterClient role should not be transferred even if it unexpectedly drops out of the game, in which case you need to specify the `FixedMaster` flag when creating a room:
```

```cs
var options = new RoomOptions {
   Flag = CreateRoomFlag.FixedMaster
};
await client.CreateRoom(roomOptions: options);
```

### MasterClient operation

#### Set whether a room is open or not

MasterClient can set whether a room is open or not, so that other players are not allowed to join when the room is closed.

```cs
try {
    // Setting the room to close
    await client.SetRoomOpen(false);
    Debug.Log(client.Room.Open);
} catch (PlayException e) {

>     // Setup Failure

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    // Failed to set
```

    Debug.LogErrorFormat("{0}, {1}", e.Code, e.Detail);
}
```

#### Setting whether a room is visible or not

> MasterClient can set whether a room is visible or not, when the room is not visible, this room will not appear in the player's lobby room list, but **other players can join by specifying roomName**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
MasterClient can set whether a room is visible or not. When the room is not visible, this room will not appear in the player's lobby room list, but **other players can join by specifying roomName**.
```

```cs
try {
    // Setting the room invisible
    await client.SetRoomVisible(false);
    Debug.Log(client.Room.Visible);
} catch (PlayException e) {

>     // Setup Failure

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    // Failed to set
```

    Debug.LogErrorFormat("{0}, {1}", e.Code, e.Detail);
}
```

#### Kicking people

MasterClient can kick other players in a room out of the room:

```cs
try {
    // You can pass in the code and msg of the kicker.
    await client.KickPlayer(otherPlayer.ActorId, 1, "You've been kicked out of your room.");
} catch (PlayException e) {

>     // Kick Failure

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    // Failed to kick
```

    Debug.LogErrorFormat("{0}, {1}", e.Code, e.Detail);
}
```

After being kicked out of a room, the kicked player receives the `OnRoomKicked` event.

```cs
client.OnRoomKicked += (code, msg) => {
    // code and msg are what the MasterClient passes when it kicks someone.
};
```

> At the same time, players other than the MasterClient that still have a room will receive the `OnPlayerRoomLeft` event:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At the same time, players other than the MasterClient that are still in the room will receive the `OnPlayerRoomLeft` event:
```

```cs
client.OnPlayerRoomLeft += leftPlayer => {

};
```

## Custom Attributes and Synchronisation

> In order to meet the different gameplay needs of developers, the MMO SDK allows developers to set "custom properties".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order to meet the different gameplay needs of developers, the Multiplayer SDK allows developers to set custom properties.
```

> The main purpose of custom property synchronisation includes:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The main functions of custom property synchronization include:
```

> - Keeping the data of each client consistent.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Keeping the data consistent among multiple clients.
```

> - Custom attributes are managed by the server, when a player enters a room, all custom attributes will be available.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Custom attributes are managed by the server. When a player enters a room, all custom attributes will be available.
```

Custom attributes are divided into "Room Custom Attributes" and "Player Custom Attributes".

### Room Custom Attributes

You can set a `PlayObject` type custom attribute for a room, such as the number of rounds in a battle, all the pieces in a room, and so on.

```cs
// Set the custom properties you want to modify
var props = new PlayObject {
    { "gold", 1000 }
};
try {
    // Set the gold property to 1000
    await client.Room.SetCustomProperties(props);
    var newProperties = client.Room.CustomProperties;
} catch (PlayException e) {

>     // Setting property error

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    // Failed to set the property
```

    Debug.LogErrorFormat("{0}, {1}", e.Code, e.Detail);
}
```

> Note: This interface does not directly set the `Memory values of custom properties in the client`, but sends a message to modify the custom properties, and the server makes the final decision whether to change them or not.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note: This interface does not directly set the memory values of custom properties in the client, but sends a message to modify the custom properties, and the server makes the final decision whether to change them or not.
```

When a room property is changed, the SDK will dispatch the `OnRoomCustomPropertiesChanged` event to notify all player clients (including itself).

```cs
// Registering room property change events
client.OnRoomCustomPropertiesChanged += changedProps => {
    var props = client.Room.CustomProperties;
    var gold = props.GetInt("gold");
};
```

> Note: The `changedProps` parameter only indicates the currently changed parameters, not the `all properties`. To get all properties, please get them via `client.Room.CustomProperties`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note: The `changedProps` parameter only indicates the currently changed parameters, not all properties. To get all properties, please get them via `client.Room.CustomProperties`.
```

> #### Allow only MasterClient to modify room properties.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Allow only MasterClient to modify room properties
```

> By default all Clients in a room can modify the room's custom properties, if you want to allow only MasterClients to do so, you can specify the `MasterUpdateRoomProperties` flag when creating the room:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, all clients in a room can modify the room's custom properties. If you want to allow only the MasterClient to do so, you can specify the `MasterUpdateRoomProperties` flag when creating the room:
```

```cs
var options = new RoomOptions {
   Flag = MasterUpdateRoomProperties
};
await client.CreateRoom(roomOptions: options);
```

### Player custom attributes

Player custom attributes are essentially the same as [room custom attributes](#room-custom-attributes).

```cs
// Poker Objects
var poker = new PlayObject {
    { "flower", 1 },
    { "num", 13 }
};
var props = new PlayObject {
    { "nickname", "Li Lei" },
    { "gold", 1000 },
    { "poker", poker }
};
try {
    // Request to set player attributes
    await client.Player.SetCustomProperties(props);
} catch (PlayException e) {

>     // Setting property error

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    // Failed to set the property
```

    Debug.LogErrorFormat("{0}, {1}", e.Code, e.Detail);
}
```

Any player in the room (including yourself) who modifies their custom attributes triggers the Player Custom Attribute Change event:

```cs
// Register player-defined attribute change events
client.OnPlayerCustomPropertiesChanged += (player, changedProps) => {
    // Get all the player's custom attributes
    var props = player.CustomProperties;
    var title = props.GetString("title");
    var gold = props.GetInt("gold");
};
```

### CAS

> CAS is called Compare And Swap, which means `Check And Update`, and is used to avoid some `concurrency problems`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
CAS stands for Compare And Swap, which means check and update, and is used to avoid some concurrency problems.
```

When `SetCustomProperties` is called, the server receives all the values submitted by the client, which is not enough for some scenarios.

For example, a property holds the holder of an item in this room, i.e. the key of the property is the item and the value is the holder.

> Any client can set this property at any time, and if multiple clients call it at the same time, **the server will take the last call received as the final value**, which is usually illogical, and should generally belong to the first person to get it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Any client can set this property at any time, and if multiple clients call it at the same time, **the server will take the last call received as the final value**, which is usually illogical. Usually the item should belong to the first person who got it.
```

> `SetCustomProperties` has an optional parameter `expectedValues` that can be used as a judgement condition. The server will only update properties that currently match `expectedValues`, updates with expired `expectedValues` will be ignored.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`SetCustomProperties` has an optional parameter `expectedValues` that can be used as a judgement condition. The server will only update properties that currently match `expectedValues`. Updates with expired `expectedValues` will be ignored.
```

> Suppose there are 10 players in a room, but there is only 1 dragon knife, and the dragon knife can only be won by the first person who "grabs it".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Suppose there are 10 players in a room, but there is only 1 Tulong Knife, and the Tulong Knife can only be won by the first person who "grabs it".
```

We can set the `tulong` value in `expectedValues`:

```cs
var props = new PlayObject {
    // X indicates the current client
    { "tulong", X }
};
var expectedValues = new PlayObject {

>     // Current owner of the Dragon Slayer

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    // Current owner of the Tulong Knife
```

    { "tulong", null }
};
await client.Room.SetCustomProperties(props, expectedValues);
```

> This way, after the first player gets the Dragon Slayer, `tulong` corresponds to the value of first player, and subsequent requests `expectedValues = { tulong: null }` will fail.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This way, after the first player gets the Tulong Knife, `tulong` corresponds to the value of first player, and subsequent requests with `expectedValues = { tulong: null }` will fail.
```

### Related events

| Events | Parameters | Description
| ------------------------------- | ---------------------- | ------------------ |

> | OnRoomCustomPropertiesChanged | changedProps | RoomCustomPropertiesChanged |
> | OnPlayerCustomPropertiesChanged | (player, changedProps) | PlayerCustomPropertiesChanged |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| OnRoomCustomPropertiesChanged | changedProps | Room custom property is changed |
| OnPlayerCustomPropertiesChanged | (player, changedProps) | Player custom property is changed |
```

## Custom events

In [Custom Properties](#custom-attributes-and-synchronisation), we introduced how to customize the game's data structures and data types based on the game's requirements.

> However, only data is not enough, developers also need to communicate with each other through custom events.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, data by itself is not enough. To allow different parties to communicate, custom events are also needed.
```

### Sending custom events

> We can send various events through Custom Events, such as game start, card capture, release X skill, game end, etc. We can also send custom events to each other through Custom Events.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We can send various events through custom events, such as game start, card capture, release X skill, game end, etc.
```

```cs
var options = new SendEventOptions {
    // Set the receiving group of the event to Master
    ReceiverGroup = ReceiverGroup.MasterClient
    // You can also specify the receiver actorId
    // TargetActorIds = new List<int>() { 1 },
};
// Setting Skill Id
var eventData = new PlayObject {
    { "skillId", 123 }
};
// Setting the skill event id
byte SKILL_EVENT_ID = 1;
try {
    // Send custom events
    await client.SendEvent(SKILL_EVENT_ID, eventData, options);
} catch (PlayException e) {

>     // Send Event Error

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    // Failed to send the event
```

    Debug.LogErrorFormat("{0}, {1}", e.Code, e.Detail);
}
```

> The `options` are the event sending parameters, including the `ReceiverGroup` and the `ReceiverIdArray`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `options` are the event sending parameters, including the receiving group and the receiver ID array.
```

- ReceiverGroup is an enumeration of the targets of the received event, including Others (everyone in the room except yourself), All (everyone in the room), and MasterClient (the host).
- The Receiver ID array is the enumerated value of the target of the received event, i.e., the player's `ActorId` array. The `ActorId` can be obtained via `player.ActorId`.

> Note: If both Receive Group and Receiver ID Array are set, Receiver ID Array will override Receive Group.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note: If both receiver group and receiver ID array are set, receiver ID array will override receiver group.
```

### Receiving custom events

When the event is sent successfully, the custom event `OnCustomEvent` in the event receiver will be triggered, and different events can be handled according to the `eventId` (event ID).

```cs
// Registering custom events
client.OnCustomEvent += (eventId, eventData, senderId) => {
    if (eventId == SKILL_EVENT_ID) {
        // If it is a skill event
        var skillId = eventData.GetString("skillId");

>         // TODO Handling the performance of released skills

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        // TODO Handling the display of released skills
```

    }
};
```

### `event` Parameters

| parameter | type | description |
| --------- | ---------- | ------------------------------- |
| eventId | byte | Event Id for the event |

> | eventData | PlayObject | eventParameter |
> | senderId | int | eventSenderId (player's actorId) |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| eventData | PlayObject | Event parameter |
| senderId | int | Event sender ID (player's actorId) |
```

## Disconnect

In case of unstable network, you may be disconnected passively. When you are disconnected passively, the SDK will send `OnDisconnected` event to the client, where the developer can alert the player on the UI:

```cs
// Registering for disconnection events
client.OnDisconnected += () => {

>     // TODO Option to reconnect if required

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    // TODO Reconnect if needed
```

};
```

## Disconnect and reconnect

### Keep disconnected users in the room.

> Unstable network, players put the game in the background, etc. may cause the player to drop out, when the player drops out, the `OnPlayerActivityChanged` event will be triggered for other online players:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Players may get disconnected when there's unstable network or when they put the game in the background. When the player drops out, the `OnPlayerActivityChanged` event will be triggered for other online players:
```

```cs

> // Registered Player Dropping/Uploading Events

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// Register Player Dropping/Connecting Events
```

client.OnPlayerActivityChanged += player => {
    // Get the status of whether a user is "active" or not
    Debug.Log(player.IsActive);

>     // TODO can do display and logic processing according to the player's online status.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    // TODO You can update display and run other logic according to the player's online status.
```

};
```

If a player doesn't come back to the game for a long time, the server will remove the player from the room and destroy the player's data, and the other players in the room will receive the `OnPlayerRoomLeft` event.

> When creating a room, we can set the `OnPlayerRoomLeft` time via `PlayerTtl`, so that when a player drops out of the room, the server will keep the data of the dropped player in the room during the `PlayerTtl` time and wait for the player to come back online.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When creating a room, we can set the timeout via `PlayerTtl`, so that when a player drops out of the room, the server will keep the data of the dropped player in the room during the `PlayerTtl` time and wait for the player to come back online.
```

```cs
var options = new RoomOptions {
    // Set PlayerTtl to 300 seconds
    PlayerTtl = 300
}
await client.CreateRoom(roomOptions: options);
```

When a dropped player returns to the room within the `PlayerTtl` time, the other player's `OnPlayerActivityChanged` event will be triggered again, and the developer can determine the player's current state in this event.

### Reconnect

Users can reconnect to the server after being disconnected through the following interface.

```cs
client.OnDisconnected += async () => {
    // Reconnect
    await client.Reconnect();
};
```

> Note: This interface will only reconnect you to the server, not return you directly to the room if you were previously 'playing in the room'.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note: This interface will only reconnect you to the server, not return you directly to the room if you were previously playing in the room.
```

**Recommended** [Reconnect and get room](#rejoin-a-room), then the player can choose whether or not to return to the room.

> You can also just say [Reconnect and return to room](#reconnect-and-return-to-room).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also just [Reconnect and return to room](#reconnect-and-return-to-room).
```

> ### Reconnect and return to room

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Reconnect and get room
```

After reconnecting, the player can use the `FetchMyRoom` interface to fetch the room they were in before leaving:

- If the player is still in the room, the room ID will be returned and the game will inform the player of this state. If the player chooses to return to the room they were in before leaving, they can call the `RejoinRoom` interface.

> - If the player is not in the room, or the room has been destroyed, a [4301](/sdk/multiplayer/error-code/#4301) exception will be returned, and the game will handle it accordingly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If the player is not in the room, or the room has been destroyed, a [4301](/sdk/multiplayer/error-code/#4301) exception will be returned, and the game can handle it accordingly.
```

```cs
string roomName = await client.FetchMyRoom();
```

### Rejoin a room

> When a player connects to the server, they can "rejoin" a room via the `Rejoin` interface. If the player calls this interface within the `PlayerTtl` time limit, the player will be able to rejoin the room successfully, if the `PlayerTtl` time limit is exceeded, rejoining the room will fail.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When a player connects to the server, they can rejoin a room via the `Rejoin` interface. If the player calls this interface within the `PlayerTtl` time limit, the player will be able to rejoin the room successfully; if the `PlayerTtl` time limit is exceeded, rejoining the room will fail.
```

```cs
try {
    // reconnect
    await client.Reconnect();
    // The reconnection was successful. We're back in the same room as before.
    if (roomName) {
        try {
            await client.RejoinRoom(roomName);
            // If you return to the room successfully, the other players in the room will receive the `OnPlayerActivityChanged` event.
        } catch (PlayException e) {
            // Failed to return to room
            Debug.LogErrorFormat("{0}, {1}", e.Code, e.Detail);
        }
    }
} catch (PlayException e) {
    // reconnect failure
    Debug.LogErrorFormat("{0}, {1}", e.Code, e.Detail);
}
```

### Reconnect and return to the room

> This interface is the equivalent of `Reconnect()` and `RejoinRoom()` combined. With this interface, you can directly reconnect and go back to the "previous room".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This interface is the equivalent of `Reconnect()` and `RejoinRoom()` combined. With this interface, you can directly reconnect and go back to the previous room.
```

```cs
try {
    await client.ReconnectAndRejoin();

>     // Return to room success, update data and interface

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    // Successfully return to the room; update data and interface
```

} catch (PlayException e) {
    // Failure to reconnect or return
    Debug.LogErrorFormat("{0}, {1}", e.Code, e.Detail);
}
```

## Close

Developers can also proactively close the SDK via the following interface, after which the Client needs to be re-instantiated if it needs to be used again.

```cs
client.Close();
```

## Error handling

> Specific exception messages can be caught by try catch when we initiate a request, for example when creating a room:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Specific exception messages can be caught with try-catch when we initiate a request. For example, when creating a room:
```

```cs
try {
    await client.createRoom();
    // Room Creation Successful
} catch (PlayException e) {
    Debug.LogErrorFormat("{0}, {1}", e.Code, e.Detail);
}
```

## Critical error event

> If a major error is currently occurring, this event will not be triggered easily, and if it is triggered, please contact technical support to deal with it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If a major error is currently occurring, this event will be triggered. It won't be triggered easily, and if it is triggered, please contact technical support to deal with it.
```

```cs
client.OnError += (code, detail) => {
    // Contact Technical Support

};
```

## Serialisation

In the new version of Play, we provide richer ways to synchronise data. The main ones include container types (PlayObject/PlayArray) and custom types.

### PlayObject

`PlayObject` is a replacement for the `Dictionary<string, object>` type in older versions.

`PlayObject` implements the `IDictionary<object, object>` interface, which provides a more convenient fetch interface in addition to the `IDictionary` interface.

Common interfaces are listed below:

```csharp
// basic type
public bool GetBool(object key);
public int GetInt(object key);
public float GetFloat(object key);
...
// Container type

> public PlayObject GetPlayObject(object key); // PlayObject 支持嵌套

Reviewer: ```suggestion
public PlayObject GetPlayObject(object key); // PlayObject supports nesting
```

public PlayArray GetPlayArray(object key);
public T Get<T>(object key);
```

[For more interfaces, please refer to](https://leancloud.github.io/Play-SDK-CSharp/html/classLeanCloud_1_1Play_1_1PlayObject.htm)

### PlayArray

`PlayArray` implements the `IList` interface and is mainly used for synchronisation of array objects, similar to `PlayObject`.

Commonly used interfaces are as follows:

```csharp
// basic type
public bool GetBool(int index);
public int GetInt(int index);
public float GetFloat(int index);
...
// Container type
public PlayObject GetPlayObject(int index);
public PlayArray GetPlayArray(int index);
public T Get<T>(int index);
// conversion interface
public List<T> ToList<T>();
```

[For more interfaces, please refer to](https://leancloud.github.io/Play-SDK-CSharp/html/classLeanCloud_1_1Play_1_1PlayArray.htm)

### Custom types

In addition to supporting the two container types mentioned above, `Play` also supports synchronising data of `Custom Types`.

> Suppose we have a Hero type with id, name, hp defined as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Suppose we have a Hero type with id, name, and hp defined as follows:
```

```csharp
class Hero {
    int id;
    string name;
    int hp;
}
```

To synchronise data of type Hero, the following two steps are required:

#### Implement serialisation / deserialisation methods

> The implementation of serialisation methods is up to the developer, you can use protobuf, thrift, etc. It is sufficient if the serialisation and deserialisation interfaces supported by `Play` are met. As long as the serialisation and deserialisation interfaces supported by `Play` are satisfied.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The implementation of serialisation methods is up to the developer. You can use protobuf, thrift, etc. It is sufficient if the serialisation and deserialisation interfaces supported by `Play` are met.
```
